---
layout: default
permalink: "reviews/fader-networks-manipulating-images-by-sliding-attributes.html"
title: 'Fader Networks: Manipulating Images by Sliding Attributes'
---

# Fader Networks: Manipulating Images by Sliding Attributes
---

## Idea

The authors attempt to disentangle facial features from images and
re-generate images after tuning (fader knobs) certain continuous-valued
attributes of the image like age, expression, gender etc. This is an
encoder-decoder architecture.

The major difference touted compared to existing methods is that
adversarial training is used to learn the latent space, as opposed to
the decoder output, thus, helping the latent space become invariant to
the attributes (conditioning labels).

## Method

-   The attributes that are binary during train time, can be treated as
    continuous during image generation.

-   The data set is pictures of actors with certain attributes, like
    'smile', 'glasses', 'mouth-open' etc.

-   The architecture comprises of 3 main components, the encoder, the
    discriminator and the decoder. The discriminator is the adversarial
    component.

-   The discriminator is trained with a single objective in mind: to
    correct identify the attributes, given an encoded image
    representation

-   The encoder-decoder is trained with 2 objectives in mind:

    -   The decoder being able to reconstruct the original input, given
        the encoded representation and the true attributes.

    -   The encoded representation making it difficult for the
        discriminator to ascertain which attributes are present in the
        original image.

-   Without the adversarial component, the decoder learns to ignore the
    true attributes, and changing these at test time for conditioned
    generation makes no difference to the decoder output, which we don't
    want.

-   The cost attributed by the discriminator to the encoder loss is
    gradually increased from 0 over the course of the training.

-   The encoded image representation is generated by a convolutional
    network.

-   Augmentation of the face images is done by flipping the images
    horizontally.

-   The generated images were evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively
    for naturalness.

## Observations

-   The objective is to make the attributes the only source of
    information for the extra image attributes.

-   Avoiding having an adversarial network as part of the decoder is
    that backpropagation can occur even for discrete objectives, like
    text sequence prediction.
